The meeting is held online via zoom.

Initially the problems with Gurobi licences is discussed. Since the workflow is running on an HPC a floating license is needed for the optimization to run on multiple machines at a time. This is sometimes an issue as floating Gurobi academic licences are only active for 90 days at a time. I state that my licence has run out and i have trouble with installing a new licence on the cluster. Aleksander tells me that he cannot remember how that is done and that his licence has probably run out over his paternal leave as well so we should both look into it over the weekend and he will contact me if he finds a solution.

Next i introduce [[Network analysis outline]] and briefly mention that i have analysed the precompiled network from   \cite{horschPyPSAEurOpenOptimisation2020}
and that it seems to be highly suited for my needs.

Then the Gini coefficient is discussed as a slack on the objective function along with the price increase in order to look at the near optimum solution space. The gini coefficient constraint must be a linear constraint in order for Gurobi to solve the problem or at the very least quadratic. since the Gini coefficient contains an absolute value this has to be transformed into a quadratic function. Aleksander looks this up on ChatGPT and states that it shouldn't be too difficult to transform the absolute value to a set of two inequalities.

The next thing discussed is the way of approaching the near optimal solution space. Either the space can be sampled through imposing some distribution on a parameter, or the bounds of the near optimal solution space can be explored by way of a boundary finding algorithm. Alexander shows me some figures he has made describing boundary search at \cite{GoogleColab}

One way of sampling is discussed as by introducing local co2 prices and imposing some sort of distribution (Gaussian or Monte Carlo) the space can be explored. One way of doing this is to introduce marginal costs for every node so that they can be varied instead of localizing co2 prices. In effect this is the same thing but the former may be easier to program into the workflow. As for the bounds of the distrubution this could perhaps be based on the assumption that co2 prices scale with GDP pr. capita such as in \cite{schlottEffectInhomogeneousCarbon2019}.

All in all Aleksander and i agree that the first step is to construct the Pareto front and i state that i have been having issues with the implementation of the workflow on the cluster. I request that we sit down together in the following week and have a look at it and he obliges.

We agree to meet at 14:00 to 15:00
[[06-02-2025]]

My homework for myself is to get my Gurobi Licence set up once again.